## Lesson 14: Startup Code Part-2
- Things covered: Replacing the vector-table by learning more about the embedded software build process.

### Build Process
- Types of Development:
	- *Cross Development*: The build process happens on a desktop machine, called the host machine, which produces the program for a different computer, the target machine.
	- *Native Development*:  Both the development and running of the software happens on the same machine(*host is also the target*)
	
- Steps:
	- Compilation:  The source files, such as `main.c` and `delay.c` are fed to the C-language compiler, which turns them into the so called object files `main.o` and `delay.o`.
	- Linking: All object files from the project, together with any standard and other libraries, as well as the linker script, are fed to the linker, which combines them into the final program.
		- The individual object files from the compilation and also the final .out file after linking are binary files , generally of ELF format, which stands for "Executable and Linkable Format, also known as "Extensible Linking Format".
		- Tools like `objdump` of GCC or  IAR's `ielfdumparm` help in dumping the contents of the binary ELF file in a human-readable text.
		- The ELF file indeed contains several sections, such as `.data`, `.bss` and `.text`, for initialized data, uninitialized data, and code, respectively. The remaining sections hold the symbolic information for the linker and a lot of sections contain debug information for the debugger. So we should never use the size of the object file to assess the code size generated from a given .c source code, because the actual machine code is only a small part among many other parts in an object file. The only reliable source of information about the code size of various modules is the linker map file
			
	- Linking in detail. an object file contains "relocatable" machine code that is not directly executable, because it is not yet committed to any specific address in memory. It is the job of the linker to combine all the objects, [[14. Startup Code Part-2#Resolving Cross Module References|resolve the cross-module references]], and [[14. Startup Code Part-2#Fixing Addresses|fix the addresses]]. If we compare the instructions using`objdump` of the object files and the final combined file, we find that most instructions are exactly the same but there are some differences.

### Fixing Addresses
- PC-relative instructions like BL, have the offset encoded in the instruction by which the PC should change. The BL opcode in the object file contains a generic offset `0x7fffffe`, whereas in the final object, in contains the actual offset. The actual offset is provided by the linker, after the linker decides where the called function will be in memory with respect to function caller.
- The linker needs to fix not just addresses of functions, but of variables as well.  The actual constant addresses of the variables are not known at compile time. When compared with the final ELF image, the linker had to fix this constant pool, after figuring out where to put the variables in the data section.

### Resolving Cross Module References
- Every object provides symbols that it exports, meaning that they are defined in the object and can be used by other objects.
- An object might also have imported symbols, that is, symbols that it needs but does not define.
-  Resolving inter-dependencies means that the linker must match all imported references to the exported references.
- As the linker works on one object file at a time, it internally uses two lists: *a list of exported symbols*, and *a list of undefined symbols* in all the objects encountered so far.
- The general rule is that all object files directly included in the project are always linked into the final image, unless specified otherwise. Because of this, the order of linking does not matter for those files,
- As the linker processes an object file, it adds all the exported symbols to the exported list and also takes every symbol imported by the object file, and tries to find it in the exported list. 
	- If the symbol is not found, the linker adds it to the undefined list.
	- If the symbol is found in the exported list, then it is added to the exported list and also removed from the undefined list, because it is now known and resolved.
- If even after processing all the objects in the project, there are symbols in undefined list, then linker proceeds to look through the standard libraries.
- [[14. Startup Code Part-2#Notes|Libraries]] are simply bundled collections of object files. The linking rules are different for libraries than for objects included directly. The critical difference is that objects from a library are added to the final image only if they contain symbols present in the undefined list of the linker.
- When the symbol is found in any library(maybe inside .a, archive package(this contains multiple object .o files)), then it is resolved. But generally, that library will bring it's own list of imported symbols.
- So, the linker applies another rule for linking libraries, which is to keep searching all object files in the current library for the undefined symbols.
- Interestingly, `__iar_program_start` imports the main function(as this branch to main using BL finally), which is resolved immediately, because it is in the exported list of  `main.o`.
- The linker eventually resolves all the references from the standard libraries, the undefined list becomes empty and the linking process ends.
- If the undefined list is still populated, then typically we have to add an object or a library. However, sometimes we need to change the order of libraries. Also, we might even have to specify some libraries more than once in the linking order, to resolve [circular inter-dependencies](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2013/07/09/library-order-in-static-linking) among them.

### Customizing the vector table
- If we define the symbol `__vector_table` in our own object module, then this module will be linked in BEFORE any standard IAR libraries, so the library-version of the vector table won't be used. 
- So, we can add another source file, a .c file with the `__vector_table` symbol, which when compiled to object will provide the linker with this symbol to resolve it. But this source file, the startup file will be different than other c files, as this module has to achieve this in an environment where none of the c runtime assumptions are valid.
- ARM Cortex-M has been specifically designed to reduce the need for low-level assembly programming. But still, the startup code will require some non-standard language extensions and we must not assume any initialization of the `.data` section or clearing the `.bss` section.
- We want to define a global array named `__vector_table`, with the vector table layout. We can start by defining a int array.

```C
int __vector_table[] = {
	0,
	0
};
``` 

- The default vector table was in the `.intvec` section at address zero in ROM. These sections are defined by the linker script, wherein we can also find definitions for rom start/end, ram start/end, stack, heap, data sections etc.
- There is no standard C syntax to place variables in specific sections. But IAR provides an extension, which looks as follows:

```C
int __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	0,
	0
};
```

- Now, the problem is that your vector table is defined as a variable that can change, so the compiler can't put into the read-only memory and will be pushed down to the RAM region.
- To force the vector table array into the ROM, you need to define the vector table as a constant which is done using the C language extension keyword **`const`**

```C
/* keyword const can be placed before or after the type, so int const and const int are the same, similar to the keyword volatile
*/
int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	0,
	0
};
```

- We can now use the map file to confirm that this variable is placed in the beginning of the ROM and the definition is coming from the module we defined, not the standard IAR libraries.
- Please note, however, that at this point the vector table is not initialized correctly, so the code won't work. In fact, the code might hang up the debugger and prevent from programming your board. Following are safe values.

```C
int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	0x20004000, // some address near to the end of the RAM
	0x9         // address of the main.o with the LSB set
};
```

-  [[15. Startup Code Part-3|In the next section]], we will understand how to properly initialize the vector table with the correct stack pointer and all interrupts available in your microcontroller.

### Notes
- Object files in libraries typically contain only one function or one variable. This fine granularity of objects ensures that only stuff actually needed is taken from the library. If, on the other hand, the objects would contain multiple functions and variables, all this would be linked in, and so you would bloat the final image unnecessarily. So, if you ever develop your own libraries, remember to make objects small and nimble. Ideally, you should define only one function or one global variable per module.