## Lesson 15: Startup Code Part-3
- Things covered: How to properly initialize the vector table with the correct stack pointer and all interrupts available in the microcontroller. Also how to write and test the exception handlers.
- In part-2, the focus was to make sure that the new vector table from `startup.o` was linked instead the generic one from the IAR library, and that it was located in the section `.intvec` at address zero.
- How to provide the right initialization? When the default code is loaded in the debug mode, the first entry of the vector table is `CSTACK$$Limit` => that this symbol is known to the linker.
- From the IAR docs, the linker generates symbols `section-name$$Base` and `section-name$$Limit` for every section defined in the program. The linker then places the symbols at addresses corresponding to the base and limit of the section, respectively. If we use this symbol, then we will still be compatible if the stack limits are changed using IAR's UI. So our first try will look something like this.

```C
int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	&CSTACK$$Limit,
	0x9
};
```

- However, we get an a compiler error that the symbol `CSTACK$$Limit` is undefined. This is expected as the section symbols are created by the linker after the compilation, so the C compiler upstream the build process does not know about them.
- So to introduce the symbol to the compiler, without creating it and allocating storage for it is achieved by means of a variable declaration that is not a definition. C provides the special keyword "extern", which can be place in front of the variable definition.

```C
extern int CSTACK$$Limit; // if we do not use extern,it will simply declare the variable

int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	&CSTACK$$Limit,
	0x9
};
```

- On compiling we get error that, *int cannot have int* type*, so we typecast the address

```C
extern int CSTACK$$Limit;
int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	(int)&CSTACK$$Limit, // This compiles and links correctly
	0x9
};
``` 

- Now moving to reset handler i.e. the initial value copied to the PC register when the microcontroller comes out of reset, so this is the address in ROM where the ARM Cortex-M processor starts executing code. The default reset handler is the `__iar_program_start()`. To get the address of the function in ROM, we can use the `&` operator and then type cast to int.

```C
extern int CSTACK$$Limit;
void __iar_program_start(void);

int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	(int)&CSTACK$$Limit, // This compiles and links correctly
	(int)&__iar_program_start
};
```

- We can also use the function name without (), to get the address. This is allowed, because a function name not followed by parentheses can't be misconstrued as a call to the function. Also the pointer type is (void) * (void) for this particular function.
- Now the other entries that follow the reset handler are the exception handlers, with negative IRQ numbers, such as `NMI`, `Hard Fault`, `Memory Management Fault`, `Bus Fault`, `Usage Fault`, `SVCall`, `PendSV` and `SysTick`. These entries in the vector table are common to all ARM Cortex-M processors and are for handling exceptions. 
- To include them in our vector table, we have to initialize them in the same way as the reset handler. 
```C
/*For __iar_program_start(), we had to provide the declaration. The prototypes for these exceptions are standard and are already included in this header file */
#include "tm4c_cmsis.h"

extern int CSTACK$$Limit;
void __iar_program_start(void);

int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	(int)&CSTACK$$Limit, // This compiles and links correctly
	(int)&__iar_program_start,
	/*--Exception Handler list*/
	(int)&NMI_Handler,
	(int)&HardFault_Handler,
	(int)&MemManage_Handler,
	(int)&BusFault_Handler,
	(int)&UsageFault_Handler,
	0, /* Reserved */
	0, /* Reserved */
	0, /* Reserved */
	0, /* Reserved */
	(int)&SVC_Handler,
	(int)&DebugMon_Handler,
	0, /* Reserved */
	(int)&PendSV_Handler,
	(int)&SysTick_Handler,
};
```

- Now, unlike the `__iar_program_start` Reset handler, which was taken from the standard IAR library, we need to write the code for these exception handlers.
- For debugging, it is convenient to use an endless loop that ties up the CPU, so that when we break into such code, we find it inside the infinite loop.
- Leaving such code in production code is bad as it creates denial of service due to such exception handlers. Good practice is to use `assert_failed` as a common handler, which is generally used in many code libraries. If we are hitting means, unrecoverable error and do damage control(*report the error location and to record it in an error log*) and hit reset.

```C
/*We can put this for */
void HardFault_Handler and the rest of the handlers(void) {
	assert_failed("HardFault", __LINE__);
}
```

- However, the vector table contains also exceptions that are not faults, such as `SVC_Handler`, `DebugMon_Hanlder`, `PendSV_Handler`, and `SysTick_Handler`. Instead of treated them as faults, we can provide an option for these handlers to be defined somewhere else in your program, if needed. If not used, you would like to provide a default implementation, which will indicate a fault of using an undefined handler. These is done using `weak` alias.
- The weak alias means that if a symbol remains undefined till the end of the linking process, the provided alias will be used. For instance, if `SVC_Handler` is not used, it will be replaced with `Unused_Handler`. However, if the symbol is defined in the project, the weak alias is ignored and the linker does not report multiply defined symbols.


```C
void Unused_Handler(void);
void Unused_Handler(void) {
	assert_failed("Unused", __LINE__);
}
#pragma weak SVC_Handler = Unused_Handler
#pragma weak DebugMon_Handler = Unused_Handler
#pragma weak PendSV_Handler = Unused_Handler
#pragma weak SysTick_Handler = Unused_Handler
```

- Use fault injection to test all these fault handler to see if they are getting executed.
- Now in case of stack overflow, when the `Hardfault` handler is getting executed, the PUSH instruction at the beginning of `HardFault` causes another fault, which reenters `HardFault`. So, we don't want to access the stack in the fault handlers or in `assert_failed`, because the stack might be corrupted.
- IAR provides a C language extension called `__stackless`, which tells the compiler not to use the stack for a given function. A function designated as `stackless` violates the calling convention such that it is impossible to return from it. But we don't want to return from your fault handlers or from `assert_failed` anyway. Instead, all you want to do is to perform some damage control, record the error, and reset.
```C
__stackless void HardFault_Handler(void) {
	assert_failed("HardFault", __LINE__);
}

__stackless void assert_failed (char const *file, int line) {
	/* TBD: damage control */
	NVIC_SystemReset(); /* reset the system */

}
```

- Take away points
	- To test infrequent events, you don't need to wait until they occur naturally. Instead, use the "fault injection" method to intentionally cause errors at will.
	- It's better to have a single common error handler like `assert_failed`. A single breakpoint at this function will catch all faults, errors, and assertions during debugging. Always set a regular breakpoint in `assert_failed`.
- Regarding the custom vector table, it has all the standard exceptions, but needs the interrupt handlers that the processor supports. Same method to add them, just included the reserved places. The prototypes is there in the `cmsis` header file. These are normal handlers and do not need the `stackless` extension.
```C
#include "tm4c_cmsis.h"

extern int CSTACK$$Limit;
void __iar_program_start(void);

int const __vector_table[] @ ".intvec" = {
	(int)&CSTACK$$Limit, // This compiles and links correctly
	(int)&__iar_program_start,
	/*--Exception Handler list*/
	(int)&NMI_Handler,
	(int)&HardFault_Handler,
	(int)&MemManage_Handler,
	(int)&BusFault_Handler,
	(int)&UsageFault_Handler,
	0, /* Reserved */
	0, /* Reserved */
	0, /* Reserved */
	0, /* Reserved */
	(int)&SVC_Handler,
	(int)&DebugMon_Handler,
	0, /* Reserved */
	(int)&PendSV_Handler,
	(int)&SysTick_Handler,
	/* external interrupts (IRQs) ... */
	(int)&GPIOPortA_IRQHandler, /* GPIO Port A */
	(int)&GPIOPortB_IRQHandler, /* GPIO Port B */
	(int)&GPIOPortC_IRQHandler, /* GPIO Port C */
	...
};

#pragma weak GPIOPortA_IRQHandler = Unused_Handler
#pragma weak GPIOPortB_IRQHandler = Unused_Handler
#pragma weak GPIOPortC_IRQHandler = Unused_Handler
```

- Next part we look into [[16. Interrupts Part-1|interrupts]].