## Lesson 17: Interrupt Part-2
- We can call interrupts as regular C-functions when compiling for arm cortex processors,  not just through the vector table in the via process of preemption. It will implement these function calls in the standard way to BL/BX(in case of leaf function) or PUSH/POP(in case of non-leaf functions). This is typical of ARM Cortex-M. For other processors, the interrupt-handlers have extended keywords(non-standard C) which means special instruction for interrupt-entry and return-from-interrupt.

- *Setting up an experiment for MSP430*:
	- When the code execution is paused, we are inside the while(1) loop, which can be any sequential code from which we have to preempt. So we can set two breakpoints. One at the next instruction and the other at inside the interrupt handler.
	- After this we can adjust the register to trigger the interrupt(for ex., changing the timer register such that the next tick is equal to the compare register).
	- The first breakpoint would be hit if the interrupt would not preempt after the next instruction and the program would execute as usual. The other breakpoint would be hit only when the interrupt would fire right after the current instruction thus preempting the program flow in this exact point.
	- We also cannot single step, because it disables checking for interrupts after each instruction. So we have to let program run free.
	- We find ourselves inside the ISR and this uses special `RET-I` instruction to return to the point of preemption, where we still have the first breakpoint already set.
	- *Triggering interrupt at will* and *fault-injection* -> two important techniques to master.
	- From the datasheet of the MSP430 MCU, we know that interrupt entry pushes the PC(place-to-return-back-to) and the SR (status register) to the stack, so the SP drops by 4 bytes. Also clear SR, which has Global Interrupt Enable bit, GIE, i.e., disables further interrupts to the CPU. Then the RETI instruction, causes the exact opposite to the interrupt entry instruction by restoring the SR and PC registers. So that's how the code returns back to exactly the preemption point. Also the GIE bit is restored, so the interrupts can be serviced again.

- *Difference between execution of ISR and calling of C-function*. The compiler generates very different code for a C function and ISR that have otherwise identical bodies.
	-  A function call from within an ISR can clobber registers, so they have to be preserved. Otherwise the interrupt preemption would have a side effect of clobbering registers.
	- An interrupt can preempt asynchronously any two instructions, so the compiler cannot tolerate clobbering registers.
	- In contrast, a regular function call is synchronous, because the compiler is doing it via the CALL instruction or sometimes the BR instruction. In any case, the compiler is prepared that certain CPU registers will be potentially clobbered at this particular point in the code.

- This is how interrupts work in MSP430, next we will see how it works for [[18. Interrupts Part-3|ARM Cortex M]] processors