## Lesson 18: Interrupt Part-3
- Summary: How the ARM Cortex-M handles interrupts and why interrupt handlers can be regular C functions on this CPU. Specifically, you will see how the designers of the chip have solved the problem with saving all the right CPU registers and returning from interrupt functions.
- Same setup as the previous one to trigger the interrupt, but cannot change the value of the `SysTick` counter, as the variable is clear-on-write.
- ARM Cortex-M offers another, even more direct way, which is to manually set the interrupt(i.e. interrupt line) pending bit in the Interrupt Control and State register.
-  Cortex-M provides an interrupt pending bit for every interrupt source, so you can trigger every interrupt in the system by this method. Most of these pending bits reside inside the `Nested Vectored Interrupt Controller` `(NVIC)`.
- So same as before, we have to control the `Systick` interrupt triggering and this done by writing to the `PENDSTSET` register. Now, we have arranged for the interrupt line to go high on the next clock cycle and the breakpoint inside ISR is hit.
- Disable [[18. Interrupts Part-3#Note 3|FPU]] as of now to make it simple.

- **ISR mechanism**:
	- *Entering Interrupt:* On entering the ISR, the processor saves the same registers as the ones saved when calling a function. Cortex-M interrupt entry complements the ARM Procedure Call Standard, so that's why a regular C function can be used as an interrupt handler.
	- *Returning from Interrupt:* The function returns in a completely standard way via the BX LR instruction, as this is just a regular C function. The LR is loaded with [[18. Interrupts Part-3#Note 2|special value]] of `0xFFFFFFF9` on interrupt **entry**. So, when the BX LR instruction is executed and this special value in loaded into the PC, the processor treats this as return from interrupt and restores the contents of the registers from the stack to the pre-interrupt state. SP is adjusted accordingly and the PC returns to the point of pre-emption. *This is special to ARM only, do-not generalize*
	- Interrupt entry and exit takes 12 cycles each, due to highly optimized nature. One of the optimization is the [[18. Interrupts Part-3#Note 1|aligner]] word, which aligns the SP(and by extension the interrupt stack frame) to be placed at an address which is divisible by 8 and can perform highly optimized, block transfers of registers to and from the stack.
	
- **Some definitions that we will need for future**:
	- *Handler mode* is the distinct processor state when it handles an exception, such as an interrupt or a fault. Thread mode is when it executes regular code, such as your while(1) loop inside your main function.
	- *Floating-point state* means here that FPU is activated and that interrupts use the FPU stack frame as opposed to the regular stack frame.
	- *MSP stands for the Main Stack Pointer, while PSP stands for Process Stack Pointer*. ARM CPU has actually two stack pointers, `SP_main` and `SP_process`, but only one of them is visible as SP, depending on the internal state of the CPU. This concept is called register banking and is another of the "ARM-specials".

### Note 1
- In practice stack misalignment should never happen. This is because the eight byte stack alignment is a requirement of the AAPCS and compilers make sure that the stack is always aligned. This concept is important for RTOS, though

### Note 2
- Another way of looking at this is, is that what other processors, such as MSP430, achieve by a special instruction (interrupt-return), ARM Cortex-M achieves by using special data--content of the LR register in this case. The ARM solution based on data is actually more flexible and extensible than a special instruction. In fact, ARM provides several variants of interrupt returns like return from interrupt with FPU on, where it has to restore many more registers.

### Note 3
- We need to size the stack significantly bigger if we use the FPU. There is also an additional price to pay in longer interrupt entry and exit time.
- Consequence of interrupt is [[20. Race Conditions|race condition]] 