#### Stack
- Stack memory is part of the main memory(internal or external). It is reserved for temporary storage of data.
- Stack is consumed during function calls, interrupt/exception handling
- It is accessed in Last-In-First-Out order
- Dedicated instructions like PUSH & POP are used. Can also be accessed by the normal LD & STR instructions
- Stack is traced by a dedicated register, Stack Pointer(SP) i.e. R13 for cortex M processors. PUSH decrements the SP and POP increments the SP

#### Uses of stack
- To store the local function variables
- To store the processor register values temporarily
- To store the context of the current executing code i.e. general purpose registers, processor status register, return address during interrupts/exception handling

#### RAM sections
- A part of RAM is reserved for global and static variables
- A section is reserved for dynamically allocated memories using malloc()/free() APIs
- Then, rest of the memory is for stack
- The size and locations of these are decided by the linker script and toolchain settings

#### Stack operational models
- Arm Cortex Mx processors use Full-Descending stack
- There are four modes of operation for stacks: full-or-empty, then ascending-or-descending.
	- Full means the SP stores the location of the last stacked element. Empty means the SP stores the location of the current empty location i.e. one beyond the current empty location. This means in full mode, first the SP in changed then the value is stored to the stack. In empty mode, first the value is stored and then the SP is modified.
	- Ascending means the stack grows towards higher memory locations. Descending means the stack grows towards lower memory locations.

### Stack Placement
- Stack can be placed any where in the RAM using link script. Traditionally, stack is placed at the end of the RAM i.e. SP register is initialized with the memory address equal to the end of the RAM. Miro Samek suggests to place it at the beginning so that the stack overflow leads to predictable Usage fault, rather than the unpredictable outcome when place at the end of the RAM

#### Banked Stack Pointers
- Cortex M processor has 3 physical stack pointers
	- SP(R13): Current Stack Pointer. This points to either MSP or PSP.
	- MSP: Main Stack Pointer, used for all interrupt/exception handlers and thread mode code(by default)
	- PSP: Process Stack Pointer, generally used for threads in OS environment
- On reset, MSP is selected as the current stack pointer by default i.e. value of MSP is copied to SP
- [[2. Operational Modes|Thread mode]] can change the current stack pointer to PSP by changing the SPSEL bit in [[2. Operational Modes#Core Registers|CONTROL]] register. Changing this C will need inline assembly code as special registers are not memory mapped.
- [[2. Operational Modes|Handler mode]] code will always use MSP as the current stack pointer. Changing the SPSEL bit is ignored in this mode.
- Content at address `0x0000_0000` is copied automatically on reset to MSP. To use PSP, the application code must initialize it to valid address code before using it. Then use the SPSEL bit, then we can use PUSH & POP operations onto it.

#### Details
- In startup script, the first word in the vector table is initialized to a linker symbol, `_estack`, which in the linker script is equal to the `START(RAM) + LENGTH(RAM)`, placing the stack at the end of the RAM. There is no special code that initializes PSP and is 0 on reset.
- If writing a function to change the current stack pointer to PSP, then it should be a naked or stack less function, which does not use the stack for its operation. As the SP is being modified inside the function, it will mess up the returning, [[8. Functions and Stack|so the standard way of returning]] from a leaf function i.e. `BX LR` should be used.
- C functions have epilogue and prologue sequences which uses the stack. So in conclusion, do not write pure C functions for changing current stack pointer. Use stack less or naked attributes.

#### AAPCS
- [[9. Modules, Recursion and AAPCS|Read this too]]
- AAPCS defines how subroutines can be separately written, separately compiled and separately assembled to work together. It describes a contract between a calling routine and a called routine that defines:
	- Obligations on the caller to create a program state in which the called routine may start to execute
	- Obligations on the called routine to preserve the program state across the call
	- The rights of the called routine to alter the program state of its caller
- Standard C compiler will follow the AAPCS to generate the code
- Any C function can modify R0, R1, R2, R3, R12, R14(LR) and PSR. So, it is not the responsibility of the function to save these registers.
	- So these are called "caller saver registers" and the caller will save them onto the stack and retrieve them back once the function exits.
- If a function wants to make use of R4-R11, then it is the responsibility of the function to save its previous contents before modifying them and restore it before exiting the function.
	- These are called "callee saved registers" and the routine being called will make sure that the contents of these registers will be unaltered before exiting the function.
- Caller uses R0, R1, R2, R3 to send the input arguments([[8. Functions and Stack#Adjusting the stack|i.e. the initial value of the local variables as these are on stack]]) to the callee. If more than 4 arguments have to be passed, then stack will be used for the rest of them.
- The callee uses R0 and R1(if result is 64-bit)to send the result back to the caller function.

#### Stack usage during interrupt and exception
- To allow a C function to be used as an exception /interrupt handler, the exception mechanism needs to save R0, R1, R2, R3, R12, LR and PSR at the exception entrance automatically and restore them at exception exit so when returned to the interrupted state, the registers would have the same value as when the interrupt entry sequence started.
- There is no caller in this case, i.e. the processor hardware calls them. Interrupts are asynchronous in nature whereas functions are synchronous. [[17. Interrupts Part-2|Check the last part on difference b/w interrupts and function]]
- Compiler does not have to generate instructions for this behavior, as the processor hardware handles them automatically. These set of registers is called stack-frame. The stack-frame will contain the PC i.e. the return address back to the interrupted state.