#### Introduction
- Till now we were using the Real-Time Operating System (RTOS) and the associated programming paradigm based on blocking and sharing of resources among concurrent threads.
- The most important and complex part of RTOS turned out not to be the context switching or the scheduler, but the mechanisms for blocking, synchronization, and mutual exclusion to support the shared-state concurrency programming paradigm.
- These went mainstream during the 1980's and have remained unchanged till now. But other programming trends were also invented, i.e. object-oriented programming and the event-driven programming.
- OOP is not the use of any specific language, but rather way of software design based on the three fundamental concepts of:
	- Encapsulation
	- Inheritance
	- Polymorphism

##### Encapsulation
- This the ability to package data and functions together into classes.
- This is closely related to Information Hiding and Abstraction.
	- Abstraction: All the details of handling something is abstracted away and simplified into simple operations. For ex. on off or toggle in case of LEDs.
	- Information Hiding: Specific information about the specific ways of performing these operations his hidden away from the user and they would have to just invoke the functions.
- We generally separate the "what" needs to be done from "How" it needs to be done i.e. a header file contains the "what" and the source file contain the "How".
- Design based on these have a limitation of handling specific number of outputs, for example only limited number of LEDs, and cannot be easily extended to handle an open-ended number of outputs.

##### Understanding by coding in C
- For example, imagine that your project uses a graphic LCD display, on which you need to draw various shapes, such as rectangles, circles, and triangles. It is very hard to tell upfront how many of these shapes you would need, so it is difficult to hide all this in a module without resorting to some kind of dynamic memory allocation, which is generally a BAD idea in real-time and embedded systems.
- Instead, you need to give the application programmers a chance to allocate as many shapes as they like in any way they like: statically, automatically inside functions, or even dynamically on the heap; If they choose to do so.
- You can achieve this by creating a different Shape interface
- Inside the new `shape.h` header file, you represent the data needed by each Shape as a C structure, which then can be instantiated in any way you want. For example, every Shape has a specific position on the screen given by the x and y coordinates.
```C
#ifndef SHAPE_H
#define SHAPE_H

#include <stdint.h>

/* Shape's attributes... */
typedef struct {
    int16_t x; /* x-coordinate of Shape's position */
    int16_t y; /* y-coordinate of Shape's position */
} Shape;
```
- Now the the encapsulation part: By a coding convention, you disallow accessing the members of the Shape struct directly and instead you provide a set of functions specialized to work with the Shape structure.
- For example, you provide a way of initializing a Shape, called the “constructor”. This function takes a pointer to the Shape structure as the first parameter, which by convention you will call “me”.
- *Note: Since the “me” pointer should always point to the same Shape instance, let’s prevent changing it by making it `const`. Please note that the `const` is after the STAR, which means that the “me” pointer cannot change, but the Shape instance pointed to by the pointer IS allowed to change, which is the main purpose of the “constructor”.*

```C
/* Shape's operations... */
void Shape_ctor(Shape * const me, int16_t x0, int16_t y0);
void Shape_moveBy(Shape * const me, int16_t dx, int16_t dy);
uint16_t Shape_distanceFrom(Shape const * const me,
                            Shape const * other);

#endif /* SHAPE_H */
```
- Note on use of `const` with pointers
	- The use of `const` with pointers is a bit tricky. You need to distinguish between two things: the variable that the pointer points to and the pointer itself (because a pointer is itself a variable!). 
	- The C language allows you to control these two aspects independently. 
	- In particular, declaration `Shape const * me` means *pointer to const Shape*. You can change the "me" pointer variable, but you are not allowed to change the Shape object pointed to by this "me" pointer. 
	- On the other hand, the declaration: `Shape * const me` means *const pointer to Shape*. You are not allowed to change the pointer "me", but you are allowed to change the Shape object pointed to by "me". 
	- And finally, the third possibility `Shape const * const me` means *const pointer to const Shape*. You are not allowed to change the pointer "me" and you are not allowed to change the Shape object.
- We establish the association between the Shape data and the Shape functions by means of the following two coding conventions:
	- First, the names of all associated functions start with the name of the associated structure.
	- And second, all these functions take the “me” pointer as the first parameter, with the purpose to specify which specific Shape instance the function is operating on.
	- The “me” pointer corresponds to the implicit “this” pointer in C++, and the “self” variable in Python.
- **We have just created A CLASS, which combines both data, which are called in OOP “attributes” and functions, which are called in OOP “operations” into one entity – the CLASS.**
- Notes on low level code
	- a call to a class operation, such as the constructor, places the "me" pointer in the r0 register as per the ARM Application Procedure Call Standard (AAPCS)
	- Processor uses offset from the object's address to access the attributes and is very efficient.
	- We always know the object being accessed due to the me pointer in the class functions, which is useful for debugging.

##### Porting the code example to C++
- When we change the Shape struct to class in C, we combine the attributes and functions together under the class declaration. 
- In disassembly, we see the access to the attributes is same as in C, i.e. offset addressing from the base address and is very efficient. 
- C++ provides the special "private" keyword to restrict the access to these class members.
- Class operations need to be publicly accessible, for which C++ provides the "public" keyword.
- Regarding the constructor operation, C++ supports class constructors directly and calls them automatically whenever the class is instantiated. Because of this special status, the constructor must have a special name, which is the same as the name of the class. A C++ constructor also cannot return any value.
- In C++, all the class functions take an implicit parameter called "this" that is exactly like the "me" pointer you applied in C. Therefore, because the pointer to the class instance, now called "this", is already provided implicitly by the C++ compiler
- **Conclusion: The C++ compiler generated identical code for the original C emulation of classes for both the invocations and implementations of the operations.**

#### RTOS and Classes
- We can use classes and RTOS together.
- The important corollary is that even though we applied encapsulation for accessing the shared object, it didn’t really prevent a race condition, as it boils down to the same assembly code in C. Encapsulation may hide internal details, but does nothing to prevent race-conditions when accessing shared objects.
- To achieve this, we would have to extend the class to Active class which combines concurrent programming, object-oriented programming, and event-driven programming.