## Lesson 8: Functions and Stack
- Mental Image: In the big table of bytes, we have memory map, in which on the lower locations we have have instructions. Now there are identical list of instructions on many different parts of the program. No point in repeating them, so one of the ways to avoid repetition is to group them under a function.
- Making them under a function makes them a reusable piece of code that can be executed from many points in a program. To turn a piece of code into function in C, you have to give it a name, argument list and return type.(Declaration of function)
- "Calling" a function or executing it means changing the [[2. Flow of Control]] to jump to the beginning of the function code, executing the code, and returning to the next instruction just after the call. We will see how each of these are implemented in detail.
	- **Jumping to the beginning of the function**: This boils down to executing BL(Branch and Link)(4 bytes) instruction that changes the PC and also saves the address of the next instruction in LR(Link Register)(R14). This way LR remembers the place in the code to return to after the function completes. ***This is true only for leaf functions. For non-leaf functions, LR is stored in stack.*** LSB of this address is set to 1 when saved in LR, as the LSB of LR indicates that the processor is using ARM Thumb 2 instruction set. This is the only instruction set Cortex-M4 supports. The other instruction set is ARM set. 
	- **Executing the Function**: The first instructions inside the function starts with [[8. Functions and Stack#Adjusting the stack|adjusting]] the SP(Stack Pointer)(R13) register, generally SUB SP to accommodate local variables and return addresses. The SP is the hardware implementation of the C call stack mechanism of the C call stack mechanism. A C stack is simply an area of RAM that can grow or shrink from one end only. The end is called the top of the stack and the SP register contains this top address.
	- **Returning to the next instruction**: Reverse all operations on the stack that were performed at the entry to the function, generally ADD value to SP. In case of leaf functions, the next instruction the the BX(Branch and Exchange)(2 Bytes) and sets the PC to the value stored in LR(value stored here is always odd, due to LSB being set for Thumb-2 instruction set). For non-leaf functions, POP instruction causes the function to return. Note as the addresses are even, the LSB is 0, so value in PC is always even or else Bus fault occurs. 

### Adjusting the stack 
- Creates space for the local variables and return addresses at the top of the stack. It holds all the local variables.
- Any function executing BL, as in function inside another function , BL must save the current value of LR to stack using PUSH instruction which saves the specified list of registers on the stack and automatically and atomically decrements the stack pointer to grow the stack.
- Function arguments allow you to specify the initial values of the local variables at the point of the function is called, whereas each call can be made with different set of values of the arguments. Arguments are stored using the registers before the call.

- | R13 | SP | 
- | R14 | LR |
- | R15 | PC |

### Note
- When returning, only the SP register is changed, the values at those previous memory locations are not cleared, therefore there will be values from the previous uses of the RAM and thus uninitialized automatic values contain garbage.
- The mechanism of BL and BX is done for functions that do not call other functions, i.e. leaf functions. For other functions calling other functions, the LR is stored in stack, so the LR is free to be used by the functions inside of it.
- *Function in-lining*: At higher optimizations, the compiler can remove the function calls and embed the code directly at the called points in the programs to have it executed faster but generates bigger executable.
- [Video on stack frames](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q2sFmqvpBe0)