## Lesson 9: Modules, Recursion and AAPCS
### Modules
- [[8. Functions and Stack|Functions]] apart from preventing repetition of code, also enables splitting of the program into separate files, which then can be separately compiled and build into a single program.
- This means faster compilation as instead of compiling the whole file again all you have to do is to compile the changed file and link it with other already compiled objects, with the definition in a source(.c) file and declaration(prototype) in a header(.h) file.
- The header file
```C
//Inclusion guards for including the header files only once : 
#ifndef (mangled name of the file)
#define (mangled name of the file) 
...
#endif // mangled name of the file
```
- The compiler works with the declarations of the functions and will compile even when no definitions are provided as it does not know which file the definition resides. It is the linker's job to link all the compilation units together to form the program and will error out if definition is not found in any source files.
### Recursion
- This is used as an example to show how the stack [[10. Stack Overflow and Pitfalls of using Functions|grows]] and shrinks. Non-leaf functions i.e. functions calling other functions must save LR to stack.
- If arguments are present then the arguments are stored in registers, and the function is called with BL instruction. First thing the code does is to save the LR register as it is not a leaf function. At the end, POP instruction pops the saved address into PC, causing it to return. Return value is returned in R0 register.

### AAPCS (Arm Application Procedure Calling Standard)
- This defines some set of rules between the function called and the function caller in terms for which register to use to pass argument and where to find the return values etc. 
- So arguments are passed using R0-R3 and the R12 registers. The return value is stored in R0. The function must preserve the 8 registers, R4-R11. If the function have to use it, then preserve it to stack and then use it as the function caller is expecting these registers to be un-altered by the function.

[1. Link for further reading](https://community.arm.com/developer/ip-products/processors/b/processors-ip-blog/posts/function-parameters-on-32-bit-arm)
[2. Link for further reading](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15071506/how-to-access-more-than-4-arguments-in-an-arm-assembly-function)
