## Lesson 1: Counting

- Mental image: Memory is just a big table of bytes, also we using C99 dialect(have to look more into this)
- Fundamental Definitions:
	- Memory = Just a big table of bytes
	- Variables = Just a location in computer memory to store value i.e. bytes i.e. instructions
	- Address = Simply numbers assigned to these locations
	- Instructions = Content of these locations 
- In hexadecimal `0x0` to `0xA` is represented using 4-bits. So to represent a byte you'll need 2 hex digits. 32-bits have 4-bytes, so need 8 hex digits.
- Most of the ARM Cortex instruction takes 2 bytes in memory and their purpose is to manipulate(store/clear/add etc.) contents inside the registers.
- ARM Cortex has 16 32-bit wide general purpose R0-R15. R15 is PC. PC stores the address of the instruction to execute. PC increments automatically after executing the instruction and this behavior can be controlled using [[2. Flow of Control|special instructions]].
- Instructions can typically manipulate registers in one clock cycle.
- Signed integers are stored as 2's complement and can represent positive as well as negative numbers(basically integers)
	- {ToDo} : Revisit two complement notation for the binary numbers
- `0x0000 0000`(0) ... `0x7fff ffff`(2^31-1 or 2147483647) (largest positive value 32-bit signed integer can represent).
- On adding 1 to that, we make it to `0x8000 0000`(-2^31 or -2147483648) (smallest negative value 32-bit signed integer can represent) all the way to `0xffff ffff`(largest negative value it can represent i.e. -1).
- On incrementing this again we get to `0x0000 0000` and the cycle repeats.
- For unsigned integers it starts from `0x0000 0000`(smallest positive:0) to `0xffff ffff` (largest positive:`4294967295`)