## Lesson 2: Flow of Control
- Typically, in pure sequential or linear code, the PC increments as a side affect after executing instructions to point to the next instruction. We use flow control to affect this hard wired behavior so as to have decision making at run time.
- This will allow to loop(i.e. avoid repetitions) or skip specific parts of the code(i.e. to make decisions).
- Basically set of instruction that manipulate PC register directly.
- Generally the info about how much to jump i.e. change the PC is encoded as a part of the instructions themselves.
- B instruction is a branch instruction that modifies the PC so it skips over a few Instructions.
- CMP instruction modifies APSR(Application Program Status Register) - N/Z/C/V/Q flags
- Conditional branch BLT.N jumps on negative flag set. The op code has the info about the offset to be added to the current PC, so can jump up or down the code. For ex. 0x7e:0xdbfc - 0xd means encoding T1/0xfc is the offset i.e.. add current value of PC to offset to know the address to jump 0x7e+0xfc(signed) so 0x7e-0x04 = 0x7a. The PC jumps backwards therefore we have a loop.
- Effects of loop in time critical code(ex. interrupt processing):
	 - **Loop overhead**: the processor has to execute additional tests and jumps to handle the loop. Therefore can use loop unrolling to speed things up in time critical codes.

	- **Pipeline stalls**: ARM Cortex M uses pipeline to increase the throughput and increase the number of instructions processed in given time. Processor works with multiple instructions at various stages of completion. One instruction is divided into steps like fetch from memory, decode and execute. These individual steps take one clock cycle to execute. Pipeline works at full capacity when instructions are executed in order. When the ordering is disrupted by branch instruction, it has to discard the partially processed Instructions and restart pipelining at the new branched address as it has to now fetch the instructions pointed by the new value of the PC.