## Lesson 3: Variables and Pointers
- Mental image: one location has value, which happen to be another location in the big table of bytes.
- The whole point of having instructions is to do operations on the data stored in registers. This is due to ARM being a RISC architecture processor.
- To store value to and to load value from, we need the knowledge of the addresses. So they are very important. So important, that in C we have variables that store only addresses, called pointers.
- ARM has RISC architecture, therefore memory can only be read by special load instruction and all the data manipulations must happen in the data registers, and the modified registers values can be stored back in the memory by store instruction as opposed to CISC. STR and LDR.N involves memory addresses.
- Instead of writing something like `p_int=0x20000000` directly, C has mechanism to store raw addresses in pointers by type casting. So, compiler will accept, `p_int = (int *)0x20000000U;` Note, this type casting is to avoid the compiler error of cannot assign int type to int* type.

```C

int *p_int;

/*
Best way to handle C declarations is to read it backwards, so p_int, is a variable(location in the big table of bytes) that holds address(location) of integer variables.

 */

```

- referencing is to get the address, de-referencing is to get to the integer value stored there. `p_int = (int *)0x20000002u;` misaligned address can overwrite existing values in memory addresses `0x20000000`

- As the address `0x2000 0000` has `0x2000 0000`, `0x2000 0001`, `0x2000 0002`, `0x2000 0003` to store a 32 bit integer(4 bytes) and then uses `0x2000 0004` ... `0x2000 0007` to store the next integer. **p_int** is intentionally misaligned and code will store whatever value to `0x2000 0002` corrupting a stored integer if already in placed at `0x2000  0000`
- We can manipulate external hardware with this knowledge as shown in [[4. Blinking LED]].