  ## Lesson 4: Blinking the LED 

- Mental image: The big table of bytes are divided into sections, for flash, ram, peripherals, SFR's.
- Luckily Cortex-M4 has a simple 32-bit linear address space
- To blink LED, you have to know about the memory map of the microcontroller.
- The technique to blocking clock to certain parts of the chip to save power is called clock gating.
- So initially you cannot read any data at address of PORTF in the debugger.
- While in debug mode, on setting the bit on clock gating control register, it provides clock to PORTF and the debugger can see the data in that address range. The hardware block wakes up.
- Controlling hardware boils down to writing a number to a memory address. So use pointers in C and deference the address directly to access the hardware and put a value to it.  [[12. Structure and CMSIS|CMSIS]]

### Typecasting Raw Addresses
- [Why typecast raw addresses](https://youtu.be/o9WpXYBqdPU?t=500)
- [De-referencing pointer cast directly without using variable, useful for understanding CMSIS structures](https://youtu.be/1Kjh0CAgnl4?t=693)

```C

/*
This is how to put values at particular addresses
*/
int *p_int;
p_int = (unsigned int *)0x20000002U;
*p_int = 0x20U;

/*
We may not even need the pointer variable, just de-referencing the pointer cast works, and this is important to understand for CMSIS.
*/
//to provide clock to PORTF
*((unsigned int *)0x400FE608U) = 0x20U;

/* Note on type casting: the raw address is pre-appended by the type of the pointer it is. so 0x20U is the unsigned int value to be stored, and so the type of the pointer the address should be is unsigned int *, which then is de-referenced. 
*/

```

  - We can make it blink by adding to looping statements after turning on and off the LED.
  - Better to have [[5. Preprocessor and Volatile|macros]] instead of raw numbers to make it more readable.
  - This set the whole register at once, to set individual bits use [[6. Bitwise Operations]]