## Lesson 5: Preprocessor and Volatile
- Better to put all those magic numbers(addresses and data) as macros. Better to enclose the definition inside brackets so that is always means the same thing every time i.e. will help in catching un-intentional text substitution.
- Comments are allowed wherever you can place a space, actually compiler replaces all the comments with a space
- In assembly, it is the STR instruction that finally turns the LED on/off. So the CPU point of view, controlling a peripheral is just writing a particular value at an address.
- All the macros for register definitions are generally vendor provided.
- In the vendor provided file, the addresses are `(volatile unsigned long *)`. In 32-bit machine unsigned int and unsigned long are both 4 bytes long. Volatile tells the compiler that the value may change even though the program might not appear to change it or there are no program instructions to do so.
- CPU can optimize access to non-volatile objects by reading the object into a register, working with that register for a while and then writing the value back to the object. You can prevent the compiler to optimize any object away by declaring it as volatile. This forces the the processor to read and write to the volatile variable explicitly every time it is asked to do so.
- Volatile can be placed before or after the type i.e. volatile int and int volatile are the same.
- You can also use volatile to prevent compiler optimization of a variable , for ex. used in busy waiting etc.