#### Introduction
- In case of RTOS, the context between the events is automatically managed by the RTOS, because when blocking/unblocking of the execution is handled by the scheduler and the sequence of events is known/hardcoded. After receiving the expected event the code unblocked and simply handled the event, because you knew exactly which event was received. Implementing this context-switcher is complex as each thread needs its own private stack.
- This is different than the event-driven approach, , which cannot block, and instead has to *return* to the event loop after every event. Such code loses the stack context between events. Consequently, event-driven systems tend to use less stack space, but instead require a different form of preserving the context from one event to the next.
- The most common and logical implementation of this is using lot of variables and flags to keep track of context. This is guaranteed to generate spaghetti code for non-trivial cases.
- The real problem here is that the variables and flags provide too much of redundant and poorly organized information, which then can easily become internally inconsistent. 
- But the improvised context management reflects the correct intuition of the software developers that you don't need to remember the *whole* history of past events, only certain *aspects* of it. 
- Specifically, to handle events correctly you just need to remember the *relevant history*, which is only what influences the *future* behavior of the system, and events don't contribute equally to that relevant history.

#### State
- "State" of a system is an *equivalence class* of past histories of a system, all of which are equivalent in the sense that the future behavior of the system given any of these past histories will be identical.
- Thus the concept of "State" is the most efficient representation of the relevant history. It is the minimum information that captures only the relevant aspects for the future behavior and abstracts away all irrelevant aspects.
- The concept of "State" naturally leads to the concept of "State Machine", which is the set of all states, that is equivalence classes of relevant histories, plus the rules for changing from one state to another. These rules are called *transitions* and capture the fact that some events contribute to the relevant history while others do not. Those events influencing the future behavior trigger the state transitions.
- There are many kinds of state machines used for various reasons, but one thing unique to all it the Run-To-Completion event processing, which assumes the state machine processes one event at a time, so the processing of one event must necessarily end before the processing of the next event can begin. This is to avoid concurrency issues.
- This RTC paradigm is equivalent to Active-Object pattern and hence we can use state machines to specify the behavior of the Active Objects
- In a nutshell, a state machine is the most optimal solution to the very common problem, where a system needs to react to events based not only on the event-type, but also depending on the history of past events.

#### Implementation
- Implementing the state machine, basically involves executing certain actions, when a particular event occurs and managing the state variables.
- The most straight-forward implementation is using a outer switch case to handle the state and an nested switch case to handle the events. Though this *flat* state machine has drawbacks related to the code repetitions and increasing complexity 
- Most of the thinking happens during modelling of the state machine, as hence actual code can also be automatically generated.
- The actual code maps the state machine diagram almost one-to-one, 
	- Leading to another interesting property of traceability, which is required for safety-critical software.
	- Also, when the state machine model changes, we know exactly where to modify the code, leading to extensibility  

#### Pointers to design state machine
- A good place to start is the default state and the initial transition, because this establishes the initial condition of the system.
- Things will become clearer as we flesh out the details of the initial transition.
- Once you have the initial state and the initial transition, think of all the events and see if they are internal transitions i.e. the state would not change, just a corresponding action will be executed **or** external transition i.e. the state will change to another state.
- There might be handling of duplicate internal transitions, which will be addressed later using HSMs.