#### What is Foreground-Background Architecture
- One of the most basic architecture used in smaller/high-volume embedded is the foreground-background architecture a.k.a. main() + ISR a.k.a. "superloop"
- The background consists of the endless main() loop and the interrupt handlers consist of the foreground part of the software. The interrupts running in the foreground pre-empt the background loop, but they always return to the point of preemption.
- The two parts of the system communicate with each other by means of shared variables. To avoid race conditions due to preemption of the background loop by the foreground interrupts, these shared variables should be defined as volatile and must be protected by briefly disabling interrupts around any access to them from the background.

##### Cons of this architecture 
- The timing of functions called from the background loop is not well defined as it depends of the timing of execution of the foreground loops and the time taken inside the interrupt handlers, therefore any operations that need strict timing requirements must be pushed to the interrupt or the foreground loop. But this could make the ISR longer and can start to interfere with the background loop
- *General tips*: The background loop ideally should just specify what must be done and any how's of the implementation should me moved into separate hardware specific modules like the BSP source files, making the background loop small and self-explanatory. This way the background loop can run on different boards/simulators and can compile for different toolchains with different BSP's.

##### Different paradigms for implementing foreground-background 
- *Blocking and Sequential*: 
	- The code is *blocking*, because it waits for events (such as a timeout event after expiration of a delay) in-line and does not progress until the expected event arrives. Once the event arrives, however, the code naturally progresses directly to handling the event because the code downstream the blocking call provides the right context for the expected event. Here when we break into the code, we find ourselves mostly in the blocking part of the logic.
	- The code is *sequential*, because the sequence of expected events is hard-coded in the sequence of instructions. For example, the Blinky program expects a timeout event of a duration of some time after turning the LED on, and another timeout event of some duration after turning the LED off. But it is also possible to arrange the background code differently in a non-blocking fashion, without the polling loops that busy-wait for specific events.
- *Non-blocking and Event-Driven:* To convert a blocking code into non-blocking we can implement the same logic as a state machine. Here, when we break into the code, we find ourselves mostly in the main loop rather than the blocking part of the code. This makes it responsive to events as they come and hence can be called as event-driven. In an event driven code, the control is not blocked at any point so it can process events as soon as they arrive rather than to spend the time waiting for a timeout. But it becomes complex as the sequence of events is not hardcoded in the code.