#### Automating the context switch
- RTOS's main job is exactly to extend the foreground/background architecture by allowing you to run multiple background loops on a single CPU and to create an illusion of concurrent execution by frequently switching the CPU among all these loops.
- The background loops managed by the RTOS are called "threads" or "tasks" and the switching from one such thread to another is called "context-switch".

##### Coding up function to create threads
- From the previous chapter, the following parameters are needed for creating different background loops
	- variable for keeping track of top of stack
	- address of background loop
	- place in RAM for private stack(start address and size)
- Traditionally the data structure that captures this information in called *Thread Control Block*.
- Now the context switch happens at the end of an interrupt return mechanism, such as `SysTick`. For that, in ARM cortex processors, we have a dedicated interrupt, `PendSV` that makes it easier to implement context switching. *Note: `PendSV` is not that special and in principle you could use any other asynchronous exception or interrupt for the purpose of context-switching.*
- The efficient way is to trigger the `PendSV`  when we decide to context-switch and implement the context switch algorithm in the `PendSV` handler. `PendSV` handler is set to the lowest for it not to pre-empt other handlers.

##### Steps in a context switch
- The function like `OSThread_start()`  fabricates a valid stack for the two threads at the two stack locations in RAM. The stack pointers i.e. the TCB structures are pointing to the last stacked item i.e. the `R4-R11` register values stored in the RAM. This fabrication makes the thread look as if it was pre-empted by an  interrupt and is ready to execute as soon as the processor executes the return-from-interrupt sequence.
- Assume, one thread is executing. Then trough some mechanism, it is decided that the other thread has to be scheduled. Hence, the `PendSV` interrupt is pended. 
- When the processor prepares for the interrupt entry, then it stores the stack frame i.e. `R0-R3,R12,LR,PC,PSR` into the private stack as the processor's `sp` is pointing to the thread's own stack.
- Inside the `PendSV` handler, we disable the interrupts to avoid race conditions, we store the remaining registers, `R4-R11` onto the stack to completely save the thread's context.
- Now the current top of the stack is stored inside the thread's TCB structure to retrieve during the next context switch.
- Now, the processor's `sp` is set with the other thread's top of the stack variable stored inside the thread's TCB structure, which initially contains the context for the second thread, i.e. the  `R4-R11` registers and then the interrupt stack frame, kept there due to the `OSThread_start()` function. 
- We restore the value of `R4-R11` registers, and re-enable the interrupts ,and then put the EXEC_RETURN value into the PC via the standard `BX LR` instruction, which initiates the interrupt exit mechanism, i.e. restores the stack frame of the second thread back into the processor's registers and starts, executing the second thread, exactly at the point of pre-emption.
- Now, when we need to switch the context to the other thread, then again the `PendSV` interrupt is pended and the above steps are repeated for the other thread.
- *Coding detail: The RTOS code keeps track of the threads using the pointers to next and the current threads.* 
- *Notes on pending `PendSV` from another interrupt handler: First the priority of `PendSV` must be made the lowest such the the processor completes serving the interrupt handler and then jumps to the `PendSV` handler, rather than pre-empting the interrupt handler. Second, when such interrupts are invoked one after the other, back to back, then the ARM processor skips the popping-and-pushing of the interrupt stack frame to avoid the unnecessary overhead. This optimization is called tail-chaining*

```C
/* PendSV Handler implementation for IAR compiler toolchain */
__stackless

void PendSV_Handler(void) {

__asm volatile (

/* __disable_irq(); */

" CPSID I \n"

/* if (OS_curr != (OSThread *)0) { */

" LDR r1,=OS_curr \n"

" LDR r1,[r1,#0x00] \n"

" CBZ r1,PendSV_restore \n"

/* push registers r4-r11 on the stack */

" PUSH {r4-r11} \n"

/* OS_curr->sp = sp; */

" LDR r1,=OS_curr \n"

" LDR r1,[r1,#0x00] \n"

" STR sp,[r1,#0x00] \n"

/* } */

"PendSV_restore: \n"

/* sp = OS_next->sp; */

" LDR r1,=OS_next \n"

" LDR r1,[r1,#0x00] \n"

" LDR sp,[r1,#0x00] \n"

/* OS_curr = OS_next; */

" LDR r1,=OS_next \n"

" LDR r1,[r1,#0x00] \n"

" LDR r2,=OS_curr \n"

" STR r1,[r2,#0x00] \n"

/* pop registers r4-r11 */

" POP {r4-r11} \n"

/* __enable_irq(); */

" CPSIE I \n"

/* return to the next thread */

" BX lr \n"

);

}
```


