#### Synchronization and communication among concurrent threads
##### Kernel Aware vs Unaware Interrupts
- Interrupt Latency*(we need to understand this in order to understand Kernel-aware vs Kernel-unaware interrupts)* : The time delay from the interrupt request to the first instruction of the interrupt service routine (ISR) is called the INTERRUPT LATENCY.
- In RTOS environment, the latency might increase as the interrupts are disabled when the kernel is accessing it's own variables to prevent race condition, adding to the latency.
- So the worst case interrupt latency is the processor time for interrupt entry PLUS the time to execute the longest critical section.
- But, there are ISR's which are not using the RTOS API's and hence would not interfere with the RTOS and hence need not be penalized by the critical sections of the RTOS. *As in when the RTOS is executing some critical section, then these interrupts need not be disabled as they wont access any kernel variables, and could be served right away with minimum possible latency*
- This leads to the concept of "kernel unaware" interrupts, which are never disabled by the kernel, but also can never interact with the kernel. The interrupt latency then boils down to the interrupt entry time of the processor. They are often referred as "zero interrupt latency" implying that presence of the RTOS has zero-impact on it's interrupt latency
- In contrast, "kernel aware" interrupts RTOS APIs in their handlers, but in exchange have a longer maximum interrupt latency.
- Cortex M3/4/7(not M0/0+) can selectively disable interrupts while other interrupts remain enabled, using the value set in BASEPRI register. Interrupts above the priority set in BASEPRI are never disabled.
- So, the ISR's priority have to be set dependent on whether or not they are calling RTOS API's in their handlers.

##### Semaphore
- Train analogy: A semaphore would be initially in the closed state, so any approaching train would need to wait. We can signal the semaphore, which would release the train from waiting and let it continue around on the track.
- A good way of thinking about a semaphore is that it is a protocol of exchanging tokens according to the following rules:
	- The signal operation adds a token to the semaphore, but only up to the maximum configured count number.
	- The wait operation removes a token from a semaphore if any tokens are available and continues, or it blocks, if no tokens are available.
- *Note:  Unblocking of a semaphore that is waiting inside a lower-priority thread might be delayed by all higher-priority threads.*
